A mental health documentary series co-produced by Oprah Winfrey and Prince Harry has dropped on Apple's streaming service.
The Me You Can't See is a five-part docuseries Winfrey and Harry produced and appear in, sharing their personal experiences with trauma and anxiety.

Winfrey spoke of a childhood that saw her whipped by her grandmother, made to sleep on an outdoor porch by her mother and raped by a cousin at age nine.

"It wouldn't have been fair of us to ask people to put themselves out there, to be vulnerable, to share their story, if we weren't willing to do the same," Harry said.

The five-part documentary marks Harry's first outing as a producer since he and wife Meghan quit their duties as members of the British royal family and moved to California last year.

They have since signed production deals with Netflix and Spotify.
Harry said that telling his own story "was a very easy decision".

"I do this to serve other people and to be able to share that story, knowing the positive impact that it will have. Even if it's just for one person, it's worth it," he said.

Others taking part in the Apple TV+ project include Lady Gaga, Glenn Close NBA star DeMar DeRozan and boxer Virginia Fuchs, as well as Syrian refugees and people with issues including schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, depression and addiction.
The Duke of Sussex is seen in the series undergoing a form of therapy known as EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing) to treat unresolved anxiety stemming from his anger at the media and the death of his mother, Princess Diana, when he was 12.

He opens up in detail about how Diana's death in 1997 influenced his decision to quit the glare of life in the royal family.

Harry said he was told by his father, heir to the throne Prince Charles, that media attention and being part of the institution was something he had to get used to.

"That doesn't make sense," Harry says in the documentary.

"Just because you suffered, it doesn't mean that your kids have to suffer. In fact, quite the opposite. If you suffered, do everything you can to make sure that any negative experiences you had, you can make it right for your kids.
Meghan spoke in a widely publicised interview with Winfrey, now one of the most influential black women in the United States, about contemplating suicide under the glare of the world's media after marrying into the royal family.

Prince Harry said it was impossible to ignore the parallels with the death of Princess Diana, whose car crashed in Paris in 1997 as she was being chased by paparazzi.
"My mother was chased to her death when she was in a relationship with someone who wasn't white, and now look what's happened," he said, referring to Diana's Egyptian-born boyfriend, Dodi Fayed, who also died in the crash.

"You're talking about history repeating itself? They're not going to stop until she dies.

"It's incredibly triggering to potentially lose another woman in my life."

Harry said he buried his feelings, but drank heavily and suffered panic attacks and anxiety in his 20s, and still freaks out when he sees cameras.

"I was so angry with what happened to her (Diana) and the fact there was no justice at all... the same people that chased her through that tunnel photographed her dying on the back seat of that car," he said.

"The clicking of cameras, and the flash of cameras makes my blood boil. It makes me angry. It takes me back to what happened to my mum, what I experienced as a kid."
Even now, at age 36, he said that returning to London made him feel tense and hunted.

Harry said he started serious therapy almost five years ago, when he met Meghan.

"I quickly established that if this relationship was going to work, I had to deal with my past," he said.

The series is available to watch on Apple TV+, which requires a subscription.

Harry and Winfrey are set to appear on Good Morning America on Friday (US time) to promote the show.